notes/Support Vector Machine.md, before:

<center> 
#Support Vector Machine
> Ch.6 *Machine Learning*, Z.H. Zhou
</center>

##6.1 Separation and Support Vector
For hyperplane $w^Tx + b = 0$ dividing sample space, any sample x resides $$r=\frac{|w^Tx+b|}{||w||}$$ away from the hyperplane. We want to train the hyperplane so that $$w^Tx_i+b\geq+1, y_i=+1$$ $$w^Tx_i+b\leq-1, y_i=-1$$ (we can always scale w and b to make it 1). We define **margin** as $$\gamma=\frac{2}{||w||}$$. To maximum the margin, we infer basic type of SVM
$$min_{w,b} \frac{1}{2}||w||^2$$ $$s.t.\ \ y_i(w^Tx_i+b)\geq1$$

##6.2 Dual Problem
Using Lagrange method, we infer the dual problem of this optimization:
<!-- $$L(w,b,a)=\frac{1}{2}||w||^2+\sum_i^m a_i(1-y_i(w^Tx_i+b))$$ -->
$$max_{\bf{a}}\sum a_i-\frac{1}{2}\sum_{i=1}^m\sum_{j=1}^ma_ia_jy_iy_jx_i^Tx_j$$
$$s.t.\ \ \sum a_iy_i=0, a_i\geq0$$
and the resulting hyperplane would be $$f(x)=w^Tx+b = \sum a_iy_ix_i^Tx+b$$
> Also, according to KKT condition, the result must follow 
> $$a_i\geq0$$ $$y_if(x_i)-1\geq0$$ $$a_i(y_if(x_i)-1)=0$$
> The third equation indicates $a_i=0$ or $y_if(x_i)=1$. Therefore, you won't find y in the final hyperplane equation.

This can be solved with quadratic programming, yet **Sequential Minimal Optimization(SMO)** is of better efficiency. 
### 6.2.1 SMO Algorithm
SMO updates only 2 parameters among $a_i$. The first chosen parameter is $a_i$ with greatest deviation from KKT conditions. The second chosen parameter is $a_j$ with greatest distance to $a_i$.
> This is a heuristic algorithm because    
>
> - Greatest deviation from KKT conditions might be the most probable item to update the model dramatically.
> - Greatest distance from $a_i$ brings great update, yet is more efficient than finding the gradient of the target function.

After determining which $a_i a_j$ to optimize, there left a single-variable  quadratic programming problem.  
$$a_iy_i+a_jy_j=c=-\sum_{k\neq i,j}a_ky_k$$ $$a_i\geq 0$$ additionally the maximum target above. 
Parameter b is determined with $$b=\frac{1}{|S|}\sum_{s\in S}(1/y_s-\sum_{i\in S}a_iy_ix_i^Tx_s)$$ where S is the index of support vector set (vectors that satisfy $y_i(w^Tx_i+b)=1$ )

Commit message:

More notes about svm/soft margin

notes/Support Vector Machine.md, after:

<center> 
#Support Vector Machine
> Ch.6 *Machine Learning*, Z.H. Zhou
</center>

##6.1 Separation and Support Vector
For hyperplane $w^Tx + b = 0$ dividing sample space, any sample x resides $$r=\frac{|w^Tx+b|}{||w||}$$ away from the hyperplane. We want to train the hyperplane so that $$w^Tx_i+b\geq+1, y_i=+1$$ $$w^Tx_i+b\leq-1, y_i=-1$$ (we can always scale w and b to make it 1). We define **margin** as $$\gamma=\frac{2}{||w||}$$. To maximum the margin, we infer basic type of SVM
$$min_{w,b} \frac{1}{2}||w||^2$$ $$s.t.\ \ y_i(w^Tx_i+b)\geq1$$

##6.2 Dual Problem
Using Lagrange method, we infer the dual problem of this optimization:
<!-- $$L(w,b,a)=\frac{1}{2}||w||^2+\sum_i^m a_i(1-y_i(w^Tx_i+b))$$ -->
$$\max_{\bf{a}}\sum a_i-\frac{1}{2}\sum_{i=1}^m\sum_{j=1}^ma_ia_jy_iy_jx_i^Tx_j$$
$$s.t.\ \ \sum a_iy_i=0, a_i\geq0$$
and the resulting hyperplane would be $$f(x)=w^Tx+b = \sum a_iy_ix_i^Tx+b$$
> Also, according to KKT condition, the result must follow 
> $$a_i\geq0$$ $$y_if(x_i)-1\geq0$$ $$a_i(y_if(x_i)-1)=0$$
> The third equation indicates $a_i=0$ or $y_if(x_i)=1$. Therefore, you won't find y in the final hyperplane equation.

This can be solved with quadratic programming, yet **Sequential Minimal Optimization(SMO)** is of better efficiency. 
### 6.2.1 SMO Algorithm
SMO updates only 2 parameters among $a_i$. The first chosen parameter is $a_i$ with greatest deviation from KKT conditions. The second chosen parameter is $a_j$ with greatest distance to $a_i$.
> This is a heuristic algorithm because    
>
> - Greatest deviation from KKT conditions might be the most probable item to update the model dramatically.
> - Greatest distance from $a_i$ brings great update, yet is more efficient than finding the gradient of the target function.

After determining which $a_i a_j$ to optimize, there left a single-variable  quadratic programming problem.  
$$a_iy_i+a_jy_j=c=-\sum_{k\neq i,j}a_ky_k$$ $$a_i\geq 0$$ additionally the maximum target above. 

Parameter b is determined with $$b=\frac{1}{|S|}\sum_{s\in S}(1/y_s-\sum_{i\in S}a_iy_ix_i^Tx_s)$$ where S is the index of support vector set (vectors that satisfy $y_i(w^Tx_i+b)=1$ )

> TODO: how to determine a

##6.3 Kernel Function
When samples are linearly inseparable, dimension increment is needed. Given $\phi(x)$ that increases the dimensionality of x, we replace $x^T_ix_j$ with $\phi(x_i)^T\phi(x_j)$. Yet this is neither determined nor easy to calculate, we hope to simply using $$\kappa(x_i, x_j) = \phi(x_i)^T\phi(x_j)$$ to replace the modeling of the higher dimensions, called **kernel function**.  
We rewrite conditions as 
$$\max_a \sum a_i - \frac{1}{2}\sum\sum a_ia_jy_iy_j\kappa(x_i, x_j)$$
$$s.t. \sum a_iy_i = 0, a_i\geq 0$$
And the resulting function would be $$f(x) = \sum a_iy_i\kappa(x,x_i)+b$$
> Theorem 6.1 (Kernel Functions): Given symmetrical function $\kappa(.,.)$, $\kappa$ is a kernel function iff. for any $\vec{x}$, $[\kappa(x_i, x_j)]_{m\times m}$ is positive semi-definite(半正定).
> 
> Common kernel functions include polynomial $(x_i^Tx_j)^d$, Gaussian $\exp(-\frac{||x_i-x_j||^2}{2\sigma ^2})$, Laplace $\exp(-\frac{||x_i-x_j||}{2\sigma ^2})$
> 
> Given kernel functions $\kappa_1, \kappa_2$, any of the following is kernel function: $k_1\kappa_1+k_2\kappa_2$, $\kappa_1\cdot\kappa_2$, $g(x)\kappa(x,z)g(z)$ for any function g

##6.4 Soft Margin and Regularization
Introducing some tolerance for error in the model, we rewrite optimizing target as 
$$\min_{w,b}\frac{1}{2}||w||^2+C\sum l(y_i(w^Tx_i+b)-1)$$
where the former is structural risk and the latter is empirical risk. It can also be solved by Lagrange likewise.
> Common loss functions $l(z)$ include:
>  
> $$l_{0/1}(z) = 1, \rm{if\ } z < 0$$
> $$l_{hinge}(z) = \max(0,1-z) \ \ \rm{(easy\ to\ grad)}$$ 
> $$l_{exp}(z) = \exp(-z)$$
> $$l_{log}(z)=log(1+\exp(-z))$$
